Number: 1 
 Title: The Ghanaian Podcast ecosystem in the lens of a Podcaster 
 Category: Podcasting 
 Date published: 2019/08/03 at 12:32 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/the-ghanaian-podcast-ecosystem-in-the-lens-of-a-podcaster/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
 
 
 
I originally submitted this article on September 6, 2017, and it was first published on www.ameyawdebrah.com 
The revolution of private radio in Ghana started in early 1995 with a bold step by Kwasi Twum current CEO of Multimedia group to start the first private radio Joy FM which was followed by a few others and many joined to what we call an active and booming radio industry not just in influence but in revenue. And currently there is yet another rise in the audio production scene which industry experts predict might put some radio stations out of business and that is Podcasts. 
Podcasts are an episodic series of digital audio or video files which a user can download and listen to. And currently, there are over 20 podcasts episodes release every week in Ghana with three main podcast networks and others from Traditional Radio stations. What are the advantages of podcasting over a traditional radio show 
Ease of consumption 
 
 
There have been times I missed my favorite radio show and never had the chance to listen to it again but with the podcasting model one can listen to an episode at his or her own convenience and it is very flexible. So currently in Ghana, you have some Radio station hosting their own podcast network of the episode of their shows for listeners. This is the ease podcasts produce to listeners subscribing to your favorite podcast and listen/watching the show when you want to. 
No tight broadcasting rules 
 
 
If you are a 90’s baby or young at heart just like myself sometimes traditional radio can get boring with all those rules, don’t say this and don’t play this music. Podcasting has technical no broadcasting borders that allow presenters to present issues just as it is and play the music that traditional radio shows wouldn’t. 
Quality information shared in real-time 
 
 
Podcasts in Ghana are mostly not produced/presented by journalist but by Geeks who know a lot on the subject which they broadcast on and this gives them the opportunity to share the real experience you would hear on radio and moreover podcasts are very personal when the host speaks directly to listeners and there is a great sense of connection over traditional radio shows. 
Who are the industry players of the Ghanaian podcast ecosystem? 
Podcast Networks 
 
 
There are three major podcasting networks in Ghana Gold Coast Reporters in my view is the first Ghanaian Podcast network with currently 4 shows touching on entertainment, social issues, and sports. Accra we Dey radio is formed out of the famous Accra we dey podcasts, currently AWD radio has 3 podcasts on their networks and lastly is YA Media producers of Young and Ambitious Show currently they have 2 podcasts on their network. 
Podcasters 
 
 
Every country’s podcast ecosystem is populated with Christian podcasts and Ghana is of no difference the major Christian podcasters are; Dag Heward-Mills of Dag Heward-Mills Podcasts Mensa Otabil of Mensah Otabil Podcast Eastwood Anaba of Eastwood Anaba podcast Aside Christianity we can move to self-development, entertainment, and business podcasters. Albert and Comfort Ocran of Springboard Zone Bernard Kelvin Clive of Personal Branding Podcast DJ Black of DJ BLACK’S Podcast Nana Ama Agyemang Asante of Unfiltered Dzigbordi of Conversations with Dzigbordi 
Organizations 
 
 
iSpace producers of E-Talk Radio Global Shapers Accra hub producers of Global Shapers Accra podcast Humanist Association of Ghana producers of Hagtivist Podcast What does the future look like for podcasting in Ghana? 
The biggest breakthrough in most industries is in revenue and subscription, looking at the stats of the rise of podcasts production in Ghana and the ease of production and consumption. 
By mid of 2018, there will be over 100+ Ghanaian produced podcasts with not less than 8 fully owned Ghanaian podcast networks. And more importantly, advertisers will be considering podcasts are a new avenue to get the marketing campaigns to their target audience while companies will be considering branded podcasts as a new way to top up their social media strategy and get their brand stories to the masses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number: 2 
 Title: The Ghanaian Artiste is equipped with Technology tools for exposure 
 Category: Music 
 Date published: 2019/08/03 at 12:49 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/the-ghanaian-artiste-is-equipped-with-better-technology-tools-for-better-exposure/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
I originally submitted this article on January 19, 2018, and it was first published on www.technovagh.com 
The way music is consumed has grown over the years globally and Ghana is part of that music consumption story. Music streaming sites, digital stores, social media, and analytical tools have helped make the local music industry become a better one. It has also given musicians so much power than ever before. Today, it would seem that the local Ghanaian musician doesn’t really need a traditional record label deal to pursue a musical career in Ghana. 
Branding 
 
 
Good branding is simply the act of becoming known for something that you do, above any other competitor. It is about defining yourself, knowing your audience and selling your craft to them. With technology, the New Ghanaian Artiste can promote himself/herself online to attract a bigger audience. 
In Ghana, musicians are constantly defining their brand with their logos, and conceptual art covers. Most of these inputs are distributed through social media and websites of musicians. 
To know more about their target audience and in trying to get a wider reach, some artists have signed onto music monitoring platforms such as Qisimah and Ghud Music which gives them analytical data of their music. 
New Media 
 
 
The fast rise of Kwesi Arthur in the music scene is evident that becoming your own media is substantial to the career of the New Ghanaian Artiste. Kwesi Arthur is believed to have started music in his high school days but took it more seriously when he got on Groundup Charle, a platform dedicated to sharing music talent from Africa. 
Kwesi Arthur released a lot of rap videos on Youtube which earned him quite the following and also featured international acts like Suli Breaks. Even though he wasn’t signed to a record label, he released Live From Nkrumah (EP) for his audience on Apple Music and other digital stores. 
A part of the New Ghanaian Artiste is owning their craft. Musicians like M.anifest, Adomaa, Bryan the Mensah and a lot more have websites that don’t just serve as an online brochure, but a platform that archives all work by the musician and a tool to interact with their fans. Some artistes like M.anifest even send out newsletters chock-full of important announcements and information for his fans. 
The use of social media by the New Ghanaian Artiste has grown beyond being a just a distribution channel but a channel to tell stories about their craft to their fans. 
https://twitter.com/manifestive/status/944119363875037184?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E944119363875037184&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Ftechnovagh.com%2F2018%2F01%2F19%2Fghanaian-artiste-equipped-better-technology-tools-better-exposure%2F 
Distribution 
I do want to encourage everybody that’s coming up especially the young musicians to try innovative ways to distribute your music as well. Is a good time for us to be innovative, try and find a way to create an infrastructure that will not let us be famous and broke. 
This was a statement made by M.anifest on Citi FM in 2016 while promoting the Nowhere Cool album which was the first album by a mainstream artiste to be 80+% distributed online. It actually turned out to be a major success. 
Before the Nowhere Cool album, the average Ghanaian musician just hosted an album launching event, made a few sales and gave CDs to stores. But the Nowhere Cool album justified that distributing music with technology in Ghana is possible. Sarkodie also promoted his album Highest digitally and this signals confidence in online music distribution. 
The New Ghanaian Artiste can now have their music distributed internationally online via Apple Music, Spotify and Amazon Music and locally with Aftown and OnBarz which makes it possible for the New Ghanaian Artiste to earn money from his/her craft. 
One could say that technology has enabled the “New” Ghanaian Artiste to overcome the “famous and broke” syndrome. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number: 3 
 Title: My Graphic Design lecturing experience at Kwahu Ridge SHTS 
 Category: Personal Life 
 Date published: 2019/09/27 at 5:37 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/my-graphic-design-lecturing-experience-at-kwahu-ridge-shts/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
Me with third-year Graphic Design students of Kwahu Ridge SHTS 
This month, I spent two weeks on the Kwahu Ridge SHTS campus volunteering as a Graphic Design teacher. 
It was indeed a great experience lecturing in entrepreneurial skills in Graphic Design as well as introducing the students to digital design. 
Volunteering Graphic Design teacher for the next 10 days at Kwahu Ridge SHTS. 
It feels good to be back. 
— OY ?? (@OYAntwi) September 10, 2019 
Why I volunteered 
In October 2009, I gained admission to Kwahu Ridge SHTS. Later on in 2013, I graduated with a High school diploma in Visual Arts (WASSCE). 
After high school, I entered the Technical University. Upon completion, I began a career as a designer with a focus on digital content by working for two major media corporations which have greatly impacted my life. 
But I remember clearly back as a student at Kwahu Ridge SHTS studying Visual Arts - I had little to no information about the various programs at the University level that I could offer and even at which of the institutions. I was clueless about the career options I could explore after school and how to even get there. 
So I decided that, I could use a couple of days on campus to help bridge this gap and engage the current graphic design students on these subjects. 
 
A section of Graphic Design students at Kwahu Ridge in Class 
While on the Kwahu Ridge SHTS campus in Obo – Kwahu 
I was assigned by the Visual Arts department to teach the third year Graphic Design students Entreprenuial Skills in Graphic Design. 
I successfully completed the program where I discussed who a Graphic Design Entrepreneur is, types of Graphic design entreprise we have, what to consider when setting up as graphic design entreprise, costing, pricing and marketing in Design. 
Oh yeah! It was the first time I prepared teaching notes. Most of the information I shared was from a few Graphic Design books, design blogs and some experinces I have had working as a designer. 
On the side, I introduced the students to the various design software industry people use and some of the design career options one can explore after senior high school. 
So what next? 
Yeah! The experience was great and I plan to make it a yearly project to engage Graphic Design students at the Senior High school level, most importantly introduce them to Digital Design and the career options avaliable to them. 
Lastly, I am working with these current graphic design students remotely to create a digital class Yearbook for the Graphic Design class of 2020 in Kwahu Ridge SHTS. 
Thanks for reading this note. You can reach out to me via oyantwi@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number: 4 
 Title: I facilitated a webinar on Building a website with Wordpress 
 Category: Personal Life 
 Date published: 2020/05/19 at 2:33 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/webinar-building-webite-with-wordpress-yaw-antwi-owusu/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
Somewhere last two weeks I received a WhatsApp message from a very good friend of mine who I am currently building a website for, she said "Hey, Can you facilitate a session on building websites online? " 
I was like yes but for who? She gave me the details, we suggested a name for, decided the duration for the webinar and she said: "someone is gonna contact you". So some days later I got a message for Yaa from Mobile Library Project and the deal was on, I will be facilitating a webinar on Building a website with Wordpress. 
Honestly, this was a big challenge for me because I haven't tutored on Wordpress to a class before tho I do it once a while when I have new clients but not to a class and not virtually. I prepared very hard, came up with my teaching material, which included the modules I was going to use, my slides, and key pointers to mentions. 
On 13th May, I received a notification from Yaa Wodenya from Mobile Library Project and promotion for the webinar had begun, yeah so I jump on it and made a tweet about the webinar and how I was excited to share my knowledge and the feedback was great, I had colleagues from work[Citi FM] retweeting and liking. 
https://twitter.com/OYAntwi/status/1260886657072578561 
Fast forward, the day was here, it was Saturday, 16th May 2020, 7:00 pm, one the first day I introduced my students to Content Management Systems [CMS], I established a fact on why Wordpress leads this industry, we looked at some Ghanaian websites that were built with Wordpress, what a domain name and web hosting service are and why you need them to build a website and we finished with an introduction to the Dashboard of Wordpress. All of these interactions were on Whatsapp. After the first session, I got great feedback from the students and I said to myself tomorrow has to be even better. 
On the second day, we hosted the session via zoom, it was the practical bit of the Webinar, we learned what a C Panel was, got to the Dashboard of a live website, created a website via wordpress.com, customized it, created a blog post, added an image, embedded a video and it was a warp. 
The whole experience was a great one, it put me on my toes to work harder, I made some few friends, I was very glad to share my knowledge and I was very excited doing it. 
 
Stats from the webinar 
What does the future hold for me concerning teaching how to use Wordpress? I haven't seen the full picture yet but I know this isn't the end. 
Thanks for reading my note, you can get in touch with me via me@yawantwiowusu.com or 0208158864 on WhatsApp. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number: 5 
 Title: 2020, the year I truly became Yaw Antwi Owusu 
 Category: Personal Life 
 Date published: 2021/03/14 at 4:37 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/2020-the-year-i-truly-became-yaw-antwi-owusu/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
 
This is a farewell message to 2020, the most challenging and fantastic year I have had yet, and a welcome note to 2021. 
Indeed 2020 will be gone soon but will never be forgotten to me. 
I am thrilled for all the challenges the year came with, globally and locally this was the most challenging year for businesses across all sectors, yet it was my best year yet ever. I dared to confront most of my fears, I won some battles and I had fun but most of it all these are the things I was most grateful for; 
1. I was super grateful for the gift of life and the awesome protection under the “Nyame Dua” he gave to my family, friends, teammates, and anyone who matters in my life. 
2. I have always known deep down me I loved to share knowledge [teach], I guess I get it from my Dad who taught most of his life, and 2020 gave me that opportunity. I successfully facilitated three [3] training section on digital skills, I facilitated a section on building a website with WordPress with Mobile Library, I shared my knowledge on how to become a Graphic Designer in Ghana with Createve Ghana and I trained some staff of United Nations Population Fund [UNFPA] on how to visualize data using Abobe Illustrator. 
3. Having my own space as a young man was one of my dreams, I mean I have never had a room to myself, either shared with a cousin, sister, or roommates. During the pandemic, I successfully moved to my own space here in Accra and I am gradually designing it into space I will just not live in but a space to motivate me to get work done. 
4. In 2018 and 2019 I begun developing my video shooting and editing skills at work [Citi FM & Citi TV] and in the just ended 2020, I completed over 40+ video projects, most of them were shooting and editing of interviews, some creative audiograms, some videocast, as a person who began my career as a Graphic Designer this is a remarkable height. 
You can find most of the videos on this YouTube channel [https://bit.ly/3rKJZ3h] and here [https://bit.ly/3pzo5xW] you will find the most challenging videocast I shoot and edited with help from CNR Digital. 
5. In 2020 my love to use the camera grew this time concerning photography, I must say I covered a lot of events instills than I have ever done in a single year, I loved to hear my Editor say “you have to go and get us pictures”. And on every roadshow with the Citi Sports team I enjoyed to capture every moment; lastly my growing interest in Sports Photography wasn’t left behind, I covered a Black Stars game and number of GPL games. 
6. I managed several web design-related projects, most of them very challenging to meet deadlines, and a site I work on got approved onto Google’s Adsense program. I was grateful for having to opportunity to handle web projects for such brands. 
7. In 2020 I cast my vote for the first time as a citizen of Ghana and after which I helped cover the election with Infographics [Data Visualization] at Citi FM and Citi TV at the national level, it was an experience worth living and we did great together with the relevant team, breaking down the information into visuals for our audience[You]. 
8. In 2020 I was loved by almost everyone I worked with, worked for, and met, I also made several new friends on the touchline of GPL games, at training gigs, at work, at events I covered and it goes on and on. 
9. In 2020 I worked on many Data visualization [Infographic] projects at work for the mainline CNR brand and also for Citi Sports, and freelance clients at yawantwiowusu.com. I loved every moment I monitored online to see how people interact with my work [Infographics]. 
10. In 2020 I invested in a podcast recording kit, right after school in 2018 this has been one of my dreams to own my recording kit and 2020 gave it to me. 
11. Back in school together with my friends who are now partners we started a radio show “Young and Ambitious Show” and after school, we have developed into a new media brand, Young and Ambitious Life [www.itsyalife.com] focused on creating content to fuel the next generation of Africans to challenge the status quo and revolutionize the world and we move a step forward with it in 2020 tho it was very challenging. 
12. I must say this is the year I truly have became Yaw Antwi Owusu, I haven’t fully ticked all the boxes though but I can say “mmere a dane” I have started something great in my career and personal life and I am going to work better and smarter, even more, this year especially at Citi FM & Citi TV and at yawantwiowusu.com. 
God bless everyone who contributed to making my 2020 great directly and indirectly I am most grateful. 
In the new year 2021, with the experience from the training sections I was a facilitator I am starting a digital skills training service via yawantwiowusu.com where individuals and business who are seeking growth can hire me to train their staff or themselves on Digital skill for the future, as I have my podcast recording kit now, yes I will be launching my podcast soon but on what will it cover? Content Design, Digital skills for the future, or will it be Tech? I guess we will wait and see. 
Also, I am gonna keep up with my video projects and videocast for CitiTube up at least shoot and edit more interviews or tell more stories through videocasts. More design and infographics will be completed and more events will be covered. 
Happy New Year in advance everyone this has been the true Yaw Antwi Owusu over and out. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number: 6 
 Title: My name is Yaw Antwi Owusu and I can be whatever I want to be! 
 Category: Personal Life 
 Date published: 2021/03/22 at 10:59 am 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/my-name-is-yaw-antwi-owusu-and-i-can-be-whatever-i-want-to-be/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
Me assisting as a Videographer to help cover an event. 
In JHS, one morning our headmistress at our daily assembly before classes begins asked us to look into our palms and tell her what we saw. 
Back then what little Yaw saw was a couple of lines some intersecting and others just apart and my classmates also saw the same. 
She then said, what is in your hands now is your life, and your future and you are in control and you and only you can decide what you are going to be. 
This message has been with me for most of my years, and I am super glad to her for those words she seeded in me back then as a boy who knew very little of what he was going to be. 
Even now I still don't have everything figured out but I sure know, the decision to be or not to be is in my hands, if I fail I did fail and if I succeed I did it. 
Look into your palm and tell me what you see? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number: 7 
 Title: I exit my mid-20s in style and a lot more fearless 
 Category: Personal Life 
 Date published: 2021/03/24 at 9:12 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/i-exit-my-mid-20s-in-style-and-a-lot-more-fearless/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
 
Hey there, welcome to my little corner. I turned 27 yesterday, March 24th, 2021, which was a calm day. In as much as I enjoyed the love from family, friends, and colleagues, I did a lot of reflections on my life. 
I reflected on my life before this huge milestone of 27, the bold steps I took in the past, and some of the opportunities I lost because of fear of the unknown. At this moment, I feel proud of myself and look forward to an exciting future. I am currently on a self-journey, aiming to become a T-Shaped marketer, or as Silicon Valley folks call it, a Growth Marketer. I am teaching myself with the help of some paid and free courses on the internet, which have made me a better person these past few months. As of recent, I boldly share my opinions without fear of being judged. And though I care about what people think about me, I must say it now has little to no influence on my life. I am living the life I want and deserve. Also, pertaining to my professional life, I am on a journey of building a digital creative program for individuals interested in a career in design. Please anticipate a write-up about this development in my next note. 
I am super thankful to God for the gift of life, for my family, friends who show up for me every day, my job at Ghana’s finest media house – Citi FM & Citi TV, where I do what I love while contributing to the success of this prestigious organization. 
These last years of my 20s, I am going to live a lot more fearless. I am going to take more bold steps, speak my mind more often, show up more, love more, document more of my life, and most of all live happily. 
And oh, about the stylish exit, I am now experimenting a lot with my hair. I have worn an afro for the past 5 years and I think it is time to try something new. So, the picture up there is my new look, which will get even more dreadful in the coming years. 
Thanks for reading this note, you can find other notes here, and if you can, shoot me an email via me@yawantwiowusu.com or reach out to me on Whatsapp via (+233) 020 815 8864. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number: 8 
 Title: I quit media for a career in technology 
 Category: Personal Life 
 Date published: 2022/01/15 at 12:58 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/i-quit-media-for-a-career-in-technology/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
Yaw Antwi Owusu shot by Elowel Pixels 
In 2015, Kojo Amoako Nzoley offered me my first full-time job in Media as an Online Executive for Focus1 media in Takoradi, a week before getting into Takoradi Technical University to study Commercial Arts. I was in charge of designing graphics, and helping with online and social media management. Working with Focus1 media was the foundation of my perception of what corporate life is; becoming organized, relating to people, and meeting deadlines. Kojo was a great boss and friend. 
In 2017, I had to leave Focus1 media in order to focus on my brainchild Young and Ambitious Show, which has now grown into The Ambitious [ambitious.com.gh]. Managing my own team and becoming a better leader was my next challenge. We did well; we were able to produce four seasons of the show and got named among the Top 100 Student Entrepreneurs in Ghana by The African Network of Entrepreneurs, TANOE. 
Fast forward, I left school in 2018 and started work at Citi FM and Citi TV thanks to Philip Kofi Ashon and Mawuli Tsikata. This was the next challenge in my career in Media at the national level. 
In my first year at Citi, I worked as a National Service Personnel at the New Media department, generally helping with data visualization and anything available. I learned a lot about the media business, leadership, systems, working with people, and the community life at Citi. 
In my second year at Citi, I began to work closely with the Sports desk, Citi Sports, covering Premier League RoadShows across Accra, experimenting with videography and also learned post-production for video. I also produced and hosted a segment on Citi Trends, and covered PR events, thanks to recommendations by Kwame Dadzie. 
In my third and final year at Citi, I had developed my photography skills and began covering social events for Citinewsroom.com and sporting events, mainly the Black Stars and Ghana Premier League, thanks to Godwin Allotey and Fentuo Tahiru. My work with the sports desk graduated to handling the designing of all graphic content for the various social media and for TV shows. I stepped into shooting and handled post-production for the majority of video content for Ghana Weekend, and was still a member of the team handling data visualization at the New Media department. 
I even wrote that that was the year I became Yaw Antwi Owusu, so why quit? 
Well it has always been my dream to build a career in technology and most importantly to build a technology-enabled company to solve problems in Ghana/Africa. And I feel this is the moment for me to trust my progress and switch industries. 
What is next for me? 
I accepted an offer from MEST Africa to join the Entrepreneurs in Training Class of 2022. I accepted to join the program to learn how to build a technology business and my goal is to start an Edtech company after my study there. 
Quitting my job at Citi to join MEST Africa’s EIT Class of 2022 is one of the most ambitious decisions I’ve ever made. I know there will be a number of challenges on this new path but I am ready for all of them. 
I have an open mind now like never before, to become a better version of myself, document each stage as it happens, and finally start that technology-enabled company after this program. 
I will always be that guy with the media background in every industry I find myself, today that industry is technology. 
If you have read this far, I want to say a big thank you! I plan to write a lot more this year and document most of the stages I pass on this journey to build a technology-enabled company. 
You can get in touch with me via me@yawantwiowusu.com or [+233] 020 8158 864 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number: 9 
 Title: We built an MVP in six weeks, in the process we used 25 tools 
 Category: Personal Life, Entrepreneur Life 
 Date published: 022/04/01 at 3:15 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/we-built-an-mvp-in-six-weeks-in-the-process-we-used-25-tools/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
Somto Chike-Nwaka pitching Egaloe at Q1 Guest Lecture Weekend at MEST Africa 
It’s already been three months into my tech journey at MEST Africa. These three months have been challenging, fun, and inspiring. I have learned and experienced a whole new world. I wrote my first line of code in Dart and set up Python on my MacBook. I designed my first mobile and web experience, among others, but the key highlight for me was teaming up for our Capstone project. 
At MEST Africa, Capstone projects are simulation projects where EITs team up in groups of three or four, find a real-life problem, validate it and build a solution that works all in six weeks. 
I teamed up with two amazing teammates; Somto Chike-Nwaka who leads Business Development and Operations and Shulammite Joyful John who leads Technology and Finance. I served as the Product and Team lead. 
 
Team Egaloe at MEST Africa Guest Lecture Weekend 
We identified a problem in the education sector in Sub-Saharan Africa and built our solution around that prpblem. According to available data, out of the 98% of students who study in primary schools, only 9% make it into the tertiary level and only 6% graduate. Tellingly, people with senior high school education have the highest rate of unemployment in Ghana. 
To reduce unemployment, every senior high school graduate must be employable at the very least. To ensure this, we built a digital education platform called Egaloe that distributes courses/programs from accredited institutions and industry-leading companies in English and native languages to equip secondary school students with employable skills. 
I plan to write a four-part series that breaks down the whole Capstone experience from idea to pitch. In the first part which you are reading now, I will highlight 25 tools we used in the process of building our MVP and after this I will write about the following; 
* Team formation & finding a worthy problem 
* Validating solution and market research 
* Building the product and pitching the idea 
In the process of building our MVP, Egaloe we used 25 tools generally to take care of communication & collaboration, market research, business development, design, and finally product development. 
In this note, I will elaborate on how my team and I found these tools useful. 
To start, let’s look at how we ensured effective communication and collaboration among teammates, stakeholders, partners, mentors, and potential users. 
Communication & Collaboration 
Most of our internal communication was in a WhatsApp group which we created. Initially, we planned to use Asana but later found the WhatsApp group effective since we are always on WhatsApp. Because of the nature of the project and the demands from MEST Africa, it was very important for us to collaborate on every single document we created, and in most cases we found ourselves editing one single document at the same time which was made possible with Google Docs & Sheets. 
Additionally, we needed a central home for all documents and assets related to our project. Google Drive was our best option. We had about 18 folders on there for various aspects of our project. Assets were neatly organized and easily accessible by each team member. 
Market research 
During our market research, we spoke to about 45 persons including senior high school students, school administrators, management, mid and junior level employees, employers, university students, and CEOs of industry-leading companies. 
Some of these interviews were conducted on virtual platforms like Google Meet or Zoom but mostly on Google Meet. We conducted a survey among business professionals, university and senior high school students using Google Forms. We also went to Ideal College near UPSA using an Uber, for on-site interviews which we recorded with our Phone recorders. Most follow up interviews were done via Phone Call. 
A section of the market research was also done online where we found Google Search highly useful. 
Business development 
With business development, a unit Somto led, we found LinkedIn very useful when we used it to research our potential competitors and partners. We found our first partner in the person of Eyram Tawia, CEO of Leti Arts, through LinkedIn and he was instrumental in the development of Egaloe. 
We used Strategyzer.com to flesh out our Business Model Canvas; it was very effective with the already made columns into which we only had to enter our input. We used Miro in the Business Development Canvas as well. 
Design 
We used Adobe Illustrator to develop our brand identity and to design several creative elements in Adobe Photoshop. We used Google Fonts for the selection of our primary and secondary fonts, used the Material Design Type Scale Generator to define our typestyle, and also adopted icons from Google Fonts. 
Most of the images we used were licensed for free use by Unsplash and Freepik. 
Before we began to design our user experience we developed a user flow and information architecture in FigJam. 
We designed the user interface and experience in Figma which also promotes collaboration and enabled all team members to contribute to designing our MVP. We used Canva to design our pitch deck and found it useful because it fostered collaboration and has a lot of assets as well. 
Product development 
In the development of the product which was led by Shula, we used Bootstrap as a framework for our MVP; the code was written in VsCode, we stored our code on Github (which also fosters collaboration) and hosted it on Netlify. 
We purchased our domain name, www.egaloe.com on NameCheap and the videos used in the MVP for our digital education platform were hosted on our channel on YouTube. We used Google Analytics to track people who visited our platform and used Hotjar to see how they navigated our platform - Egaloe. 
A bunch of tools right? 
I didn’t realize how many until I decided to list them for this article. This brings me to the end of the first part of our four-part series about my first Capstone experience at MEST Africa. 
If you read this far, I want to say thank you. As I said in my last note, I plan to write a lot more this year and hopefully, it will be more about what I have learned, not just my experience. 
You can get in touch with me via me@yawantwiowusu.com or [+233] 020 8158 864 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number: 10 
 Title: Kwahu Easter Festival 2022 was memorable but it could even get better 
 Category: Personal Life, Entrepreneur Life 
 Date published: 2022/04/25 at 11:56 am 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/kwahu-easter-festival-2022-was-memorable-but-it-could-even-get-better/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
 
If you have followed my work for a while now, you will have noticed that I am a proud Kwahu. Last weekend I went home for the Kwahu Easter Festival with a couple of my friends from MEST Africa. That was the first time I was in Kwahu for the Easter festival since 2013 and I must say that a lot of things has changed. 
In this note I talk about some of the things I liked and those I think could be improved; 
1. Local tourism boomed 
 
 
My key highlight is the fact that the tourism aspect of the festival is gradually growing, and this is beyond the paragliding activities which according to GTA had about 400 participants. 
I went to two sites and the patronage was encouraging, especially Nkofieho cave in Twenedurase, the numbers there were massive. I think going forward a lot more effort should be put into marketing other tourist sites in Kwahu during the festival to attract a lot more participants. 
2. Kwahu State Book launch did the magic 
View this post on Instagram 
A post shared by Proud of Kwahu (@_madeinkwahu_) 
The launch of the Kwahu State Book which was strategically scheduled during the Easter festival was a great one, bringing dignitaries to experience Kwahu Easter. It was also an opportunity to showcase the rich Kwahu culture to the world. 
3. Kwahu Dwaso was the official souvenir market 
 
 
The pop-up market at Mpraeso, ‘Kwahu Dwaso’ was a great idea for people who wanted souvenirs from the festival and I like the fact that there was a diverse catalog to buy from but I think an additional division for only food, that is local food will be a great one: a place during the festival where one caeemn taste and buy local food from Kwahu. 
4. Brands beyond beverages didn’t really tap into the festival 
View this post on Instagram 
A post shared by Chipper Cash Ghana (@chippercashapp_gh) 
There were a lot of street carnivals. For people who love loud music, this was a great festival and there were a lot of brand activations for beverages. I think a lot more people come to Kwahu during easter and brands and marketers must tap into that, it will be a great place to put your brand in the faces of people. 
5. Ghana Police wasn’t only promoting peace but marketing the force as an ideal professional option 
 
 
The visibility of Ghana Police during the festival was noticeable, they were at every junction literally, and the IGP was also there. one thing I found very innovative was the Police stand at Mpraeso where people could go and learn about the police force and even try on some of their uniforms. When I was there a parent walked in with his daughter enquiring about how one could join the force and I would say that that festival really marketed the Ghana Police force as an ideal professional option. 
 
 
I personally wish a lot more professional associations/groups could adopt that and also market their role during the festival or even go further to organize career forums during the day for the youth. 
6. The celebration was decentralized 
View this post on Instagram 
A post shared by Rock City Hotel (@rock.cityhotel) 
I went to about 6 towns. The previous Easter festival had most of the activities only at Obemeng, Atibie, and Mpreaso. But this year it was decentralized. There were pockets of activities across various towns, in Nkwatia, Rock City was buzzing, in Twenedurase caves were busy and in Tafo the food joints near the waterfalls were very busy. 
7. Kwahus are hospitable people 
 
 
I know Kwahus are hospitable people not just because I am a Kwahu but because I experienced it. I lost my luggage on Friday when I got to Nkawkaw from Accra. I joined a bus to Nkawtia and had to alight because the fare the driver quoted was outrageous for me and in the process, I forgot my luggage while the bus took off. It was only after about 10 minutes had passed that I realized that I didn’t have my luggage 
My Friends and I tried to chase down the bus driver in a taxi and when we got to Atibie we had to walk/jog all the way to Mpreaso because the traffic wasn’t moving fast enough. We weren’t able to find the driver that night and when we got home without my luggage I was sad because my bag had my camera, ID cards, wallet and clothes for the festival. 
The next morning I joined a taxi to Nkawkaw new station in search of the driver, the only details I could remember about the car and the driver was; 
1. The Driver was a little bit old in his early 50s or late 40s 
2. The bus was a white 16 seater Toyota (but yeah there were a lot of these buses during the festival 
3. The bus took off to Nkwatia around 8:30 pm 
Upon reaching Nkawkaw new station, the support I got from the driver community there was beyond my expectations. I was blown away by how the drivers gave me the attention I needed, listened to me willingly, and offered to help without asking for anything in return. 
In the process, we called about 4 different drivers with the same bus description, and finally, I found the driver. He was at Obemeng and he confirmed that my luggage was in his car and was safe. I joined a taxi that was headed to Obemong and retrieved my luggage. I was very overjoyed and thankful to God. Then I switch back to party mode for the festival. 
In all I had a lot of fun, I met a number of my seniors from JHS, created new memories which will live with me forever and I can’t wait for next year’s Kwahu Easter Festival. 
Kwahu ooo Kwahu! #VisitKwahu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number: 11 
 Title: 2022 in review; the year I got into tech 
 Category: Personal Life, Entrepreneur Life 
 Date published: 2023/01/16 at 5:22 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/2022-in-review-the-year-i-got-into-tech/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
 
Happy new year to you, and thank you for clicking to read this note. This is my 2022 in review. It was exciting, challenging, encouraging, and refreshing. 
Let me re-introduce myself, in case you are a new reader here. I am Yaw Antwi Owusu, a Believer in Christ, Youth Advocate, and a Pan-African who works in tech as a Product designer and startup founder. I quit my job in media in December 2021 to pursue my goal of building a career in tech. 
Now that you know who I am, let’s get into what 2022 was for me. In the subsequent paragraphs, I will be highlighting key moments that defined my year. 
Named among 100 top personalities celebrated at the inaugural edition of Kwahu State Dinner 
 
Local man in Tuxedo ft. I was looking fly 
In January, I got an invitation to the inaugural edition of the Kwahu State Dinner, attended by the president of Ghana, His Excellency Nana Akufo Addo, Kwahumanhene Daasebre Akuamoah Agyapong II, and political and business leaders. 
At the event, I was celebrated as one of the top 100 personalities of Kwahu descent doing well in various industries in Ghana. It was an honor, and I will like to thank the MP for Mpraeso constituency, Hon. Davis Ansah Opoku and Executive Director of the National Schools Inspectorate Authority (NaSIA), Dr. Hilda Ampadu, for the opportunity. 
Building a stronger relationship with God 
View this post on Instagram 
A post shared by Yaw Antwi Owusu (@yawantwiowusu) 
I can boldly say that my relationship with God grew in 2022; my prayer life saw an improvement and my knowledge and faith in God and His works and word became stronger. I fellowshipped a lot at Grace Centre, and God answered a prayer I had been praying for so long. 
I was very glad I had the support I needed to build this relationship with God. I would like to thank my Pastor and mentor, Ps. Mawuli Tsikata, and my family for their support. 
Starting and graduating from the MEST Africa EIT program 
 
MEST Power ft. Class of 2022 & Faculty 
After quitting my job in media, I got into MEST Africa’s EIT program which lasted for eight months. 
During the program, I wrote my first line of dart code, met business partners, built life-long friendships, learned a lot about building a software company, teamed up to build three MVPs, was mentored by some brilliant minds, and learned a lot about myself. 
Met co-founders and started building Ubadi Technologies 
 
Ubadi founder ft. Yaw, Somto, Poga & Philip 
During the MEST program, I met my co-founders Somto, Poga, and Philip. These three have unique personalities, and I am glad to have connected with them. 
Together we did some fun things like walking through the Nkofieho Caves and climbing Mount Afadjato. We also brainstormed ideas for our business, talked to teenagers & parents to validate our ideas, pitched our ideas to investors, built our product — the Ubadi App, and have finally started and incorporated Ubadi Technologies. 
Traveled across seven new regions in Ghana 
I did a lot of local traveling in 2022. I visited seven new regions for work, volunteering activities, and fun. 
* Oti Region 
I visited the Oti region for the first time for a volunteering activity with the N-Plec Foundation’s Studentpreneur project, where I had the opportunity to train SHSs students in web designing with Figma. 
* Volta Region 
 
Conquering Afadjato ft. We did it 
I visited the Volta region for the first time for the annual EIT trip, and I climbed Mount Afadjato and swam in Wli waterfall. 
* Bono East, Bono, Northern, Savannah, and Upper West Regions 
I visited these regions for work. I was on the research and evaluation team of Savings Grians, a German impact company helping farmers and aggregators fight post-harvest loss on grains like maize and maximize profit through access to capital and storage technology. 
I saw and understand firsthand that farmers are rich folks and that agriculture is indeed a profitable venture. I appreciated what it is to build software for these target audiences and what real impact looked like. 
I got into tech as a product designer and a startup founder 
View this post on Instagram 
A post shared by Yaw Antwi Owusu (@yawantwiowusu) 
If you have ever been on my Twitter timeline on @YawAntwiOwusu, you may have noticed my popular note, “I quit media for a career in technology”. It finally happened in 2022. 
I started Ubadi Technologies with my co-founders Somto, Poga, and Philip, and we are working tirelessly on our business and product. At Ubadi, we are looking at increasing the financial inclusion brackets for teenagers across Africa through our advocacy activities and the Ubadi App, which will be launched later in 2023. 
Apart from Ubadi Technologies, I accepted an offer from Altavia Design, a software design and development agency in Ghana as a Product Designer. At Altavia Design, I got to design and ship experiences for brands like MTN Ghana and Saving Grains, thanks to Kelvin Tyron for the opportunity. 
I went to my first Product Designer and User Experience professional meetup by UX Ghana and went to the maiden Fintech Ecosystem Meetup at Zeepay HQ. I also spoke as a speaker on a Twitter space organized by Utiva. 
Bonus: I had a viral tweet 
Can we imagine what could possibly happen if first year Visual arts students in SHS are introduced to design softwares like Figma, Photoshop, Illustrator or After Effects? 
— Yaw ?? (@YawAntwiOwusu) May 15, 2022 
Because of the products I worked on at MEST, I interacted with young people in 2022 during business validation research and product testing activities. 
 
Out of some of the bright conversations I had with these young people, I tweeted about what could happen if we began teaching teenagers relevant skills for the future, and it appears many felt it was a thought in the right direction. 
I am looking forward to a brighter 2023 where my relationship with God grows even stronger, and in my career and business, I am looking to have a fruitful year as a founder and product designer. Lastly, I hope to share a lot of learning points I gather through my work in the coming years to help impact bright minds. 
Thank you for reading this far. You can shoot me an email via me@yawantwiowusu.com or dm me on Twitter @YawAntwiOwusu so we can talk about tech, building businesses in Ghana, educating teenagers, building a relationship with God, and developing Africa. 
Edited by Efua Eshun of Golden Quill Editing Solutions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number: 12 
 Title: Product management and growth is up next… 
 Category: Personal Life, Entrepreneur Life 
 Date published: 2024/11/03 at 2:09 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/product-management-and-growth-is-up-next/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
 
It’s been over 50 sprints, hundreds of features shipped across five major products, and thousands of team calls — all in the pursuit of creating better digital experiences. 
Last week marked the end of my two-year journey at Dexwin, and as I wrap up my final sprint, I’m incredibly grateful for the opportunities I’ve had here. Over the past two years and two months, I’ve had the privilege to design user experiences for some exciting products that impact millions. Among them were the MyMTN app, MTN Pulse, MTN Hoods, MTN E-Shop, and Saving Grains app. Each project taught me something new, and each challenge helped me grow as a product designer and leader. 
I am proud of the amount of users I empower in my line of work where I focused on designing intuitive and accessible experiences that bring digital solutions closer to everyone across multiple demographics and platforms, from young Ghanaians using MTN Pulse to rural communities benefiting from Saving Grains. 
I worked with a talented team across MTN Ghana, and I was able to help launch and iterate on features that now serve millions of users delivering impact at scale and increasing revenues. From streamlined user flows to visually engaging interfaces and impactful user testing and research, each element was crafted to make users’ digital interactions smoother and more valuable. 
My role gave me the opportunity to work with brilliant engineers, product managers from MTN Ghana, founders and senior executives at Savings Grains and colleague product designers internally. I’m grateful to each of my teammates for their insights and dedication — we achieved so much because of our shared passion for innovation. 
Looking ahead after an incredible two years of designing digital experience — filled with valuable lessons, countless sprints, and amazing team collaborations — I’m excited to be stepping into a new challenge in product management and growth for a fintech. 
It’s a big step forward, and I’m grateful for the experiences that have shaped my journey so far. 
Thank you to everyone who’s been a part of my journey so far! 
Looking forward to applying everything I’ve learned to make a meaningful impact in my next chapter. 
 
Cheers, 
Yaw.

Number: 13 
 Title: Why I don't network traditionally and how you can try too. 
 Category: Thoughts 
 Date published: 2025/08/11 at 12:00 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/why-i-dont-network-traditionally-and-how-you-can-try-too/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
 
Networking is one of the power tools of mankind, meeting new people, supporting initiatives, and building great connections. Traditional networking is reaching out to everyone and anyone you can at events, via social media, or through introductions. 
The approach works in the moment, but most times it doesn't create a long-lasting impression that makes one unforgettable. 
So then, how do you network untraditionally? 
1. Networking untraditionally at events 
I am an introvert, which means my social battery is very low on most days. This also means I have to be very tactical when I am at events. For every event I attend for networking purposes, I always have a mental list of personalities I'd like to meet and those I have to meet. With this approach, every "hi" and "hello" is very tactical and goal-oriented. I don't use up all my social battery and go home without results. Usually at events, depending on my goal, I do brief introductions, have small talk, and lastly, establish a means of contact — and that's it for the day. 
2. Networking untraditionally by providing value first 
When I was in Uni, my colleagues and I wanted to start a podcast, but we had a big challenge: we didn't have a studio. At the time, podcast studios weren't easy to find. So, what did we do? We reached out to the Manager of our Campus Radio station with the idea to create a website for their outfit — in return, they'd give us airtime for our podcast. Guess what? It worked. Now, Mr. Anim is one of my trusted contacts in the media space in Takoradi. Every time I visit Takoradi, I pass by his office to say hi. He has supported a lot of my projects since, and I have also done the same for him. 
3. Networking untraditionally by building big projects 
Building big projects requires you to do big things and some of those big things will have you meeting people you normally wouldn't have a reason to meet. Since we started Insights Lab (Building Bytes) with my founding partners Akweley, Caleb, and Poga, the work has required me to build relationships with people who are equally on the same journey as us. This isn't about "networking up" with CEOs of Ghana's biggest tech organisations, but about meeting and building connections with friends who are also building big projects in their early stages. Some of these people are now good friends, and if I wasn't building something like Building Bytes, I might never have seen the need to know them. 
4. Networking untraditionally by volunteering 
Volunteering is one free cheat code to network. Two years ago, I joined a youth program as an Employability Mentor. Through that program, I built connections with my fellow mentors and also with my mentee. It's been a couple of years since, and now I know these amazing people and they know me because we volunteered together. I see this works well for volunteering at events, too. 
Networking can be a powerful tool if done right, and it can feel like a job if done wrong. At the heart of all these approaches is one idea: networking should be intentional, not exhausting. Whether it's picking the right people to talk to at events, offering value before asking for anything, building projects that naturally connect you to like-minded people, or volunteering your skills, the goal is the same: create relationships that last beyond the first handshake. 
That's why I don't network traditionally I'd rather build connections that matter than collect contacts I'll never use.

Number: 14 
 Title: Why Caring about your work changes the Results you get 
 Category: Thoughts 
 Date published: 2025/08/18 at 12:00 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/why-caring-about-your-work-changes-the-results-you-get/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
 
My take and experience with caring when it comes to work is a bit spiritual but hear me out. 
Caring about your work means going beyond the bare minimum. It's not just about doing the task in front of you, but owning the results as if your name is stamped on them. 
Outside of my work at Daakye Digital, where I handle product development operations, I also lead the team at Insights Lab, the creators of Building Bytes, Ghana's most relevant tech platform. 
Back in November, through the support of Hubtel Academy, we started publishing videos from our podcast episodes. For two months, the views were average. At the start of this year, we decided to push harder. We changed our publishing format, introduced a rule that every episode must have three thumbnail options, and experimented with catchphrases. By the second video of this experiment, we had our first 1k+ views. 
 
What we changed on YouTube 
A snapshot of published videos from Building Bytes. 
If we didn't care, we would have just blamed the algorithm and kept doing the same thing. But by putting in extra effort, even to the point of doing ten iterations for a single thumbnail, we saw results. I believe the universe has a way of rewarding that kind of effort. 
The same applied in my day job. Earlier this year, I was tasked with researching an emerging fintech vertical. Desk research gave me the basics, but no concrete numbers. It would have been easy to stop there. Instead, I reached out to multiple sources, had conversations with leaders in the space, and eventually got the data I needed not from a report, but a casual chat with one of those leaders. Again, caring pushed me further, and the answers came. 
So what does caring about your work look like in practice? 
Hold yourself to a higher standard. Make sure anything with your name on it reflects your best effort. 
Don't settle for the first draft. Iterate, refine, and improve before you ship. 
Go beyond the minimum. Not because you can't stop, but because you care about the outcome. 
When you care deeply about your work, you'll find that the universe responds, sometimes in small ways, sometimes in big ones. But the results always change.

Number: 15 
 Title: Why action and results always win 
 Category: Thoughts 
 Date published: 2025/08/25 at 12:00 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/why-action-and-results-always-win/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
 
I love strategy work, but what I love even more is strategy in motion, strategy that breeds desirable results for all stakeholders. 
For much of my early life, I was a dreamer. I would build entire businesses in my head, mapping out ideas and even writing down plans. My first media project never launched, but when I got to university, things changed; I became both a dreamer and a builder. I didn't just imagine things; I got to work. After years of dreaming and building, I can confidently say: action and results always win, even when the results aren't exactly what you hoped for. 
So, how does one consistently become a dreamer and a builder, someone driven by action and results? Here's a framework I use: 
1. Adopt the Right Mindset 
Your why changes everything. With a strong mindset, you can push through challenges, take uncomfortable action, and focus on getting results. Here's how to cultivate it: 
Treat every action as an experiment. 
Every action should inform your next step, not determine whether you're a "failure" or "success." This mindset lowers the pressure, encourages experimentation, and gets you moving. Action backed by data is always good action. 
Think like a founder, act like a PM. 
A founder is deeply rooted in their why, while a product manager is methodical, breaking down work into small, trackable steps. When we started Building Bytes, I studied every data point from our audience, especially Spotify analytics, and used it to shape our next move. This combination of vision and discipline drives meaningful results. 
Once your mindset is right, the next step is to move with purpose, but move fast. 
2. Move Fast 
Moving fast in the right direction changes everything. Here's how I make speed work for me: 
Shrink your thought-to-action gap. 
Many great ideas die in the pre-execution phase because we overthink them. As soon as I decide something is worth pursuing, I take one bold, practical step. Recently, I launched a printing service in Accra. Instead of spending months on branding, my first step after validation was formalising the business and building a simple MVP. In less than a month, we had paying customers. 
Embrace quiet action. 
Not every action has to be loud. In today's "build in public" culture, which I support, quiet, behind-the-scenes action often gets you closer to big results. For example, when I became Cursor's Ambassador in Ghana, I didn't announce it immediately. I quietly secured partnerships, finalised logistics, and built momentum behind the scenes. When we finally launched the first Cursor event in Ghana, it was polished and impactful because the groundwork was already solid. 
Once you're moving fast with purpose, the next step is to build with others. 
3. Build with Others 
No one scales action alone. 
Welcome and recruit good support. 
Great results are rarely achieved solo. Last Saturday, I led a team of 11 volunteers to organise Cursor's first-ever community event in West Africa. We successfully ran an outreach campaign at the University of Ghana and hosted over 50 users at MEST Africa in Osu. That would have been impossible without good support. 
I say "good" support intentionally because not all support is equal. Good support moves you from point zero to point one without compromising your vision or results. This kind of support is a force multiplier, turning your individual action into a collective achievement. 
Action and results will always outshine ideas that live only in your head. Strategy matters, but strategy in motion creates impact. When you adopt the right mindset, move fast with purpose, and surround yourself with the right people, you create a system where every action compounds. Even when the outcome isn't perfect, you gain clarity, momentum, and opportunities that dreaming alone could never deliver. 
Dream, yes. But build, move, and act, because action backed by results is the ultimate strategy.

Number: 16 
 Title: Don't launch another waitlist, not in 2025 or after 
 Category: Product Musings 
 Date published: 2025/12/01 at 12:00 pm 
 URL: https://yawantwiowusu.com/dont-launch-another-waitlist-not-in-2025-or-after/ 
 Body & Pictures: 
 
 
 
Waitlists, as widely known, are one of the "easiest" ways to validate a problem, but they do only half the job. In my first startup, Ubadi, after doing rigorous market research where I led my team to host three focus group discussions and gather over 200 entries for our survey on finance for families with a focus on teenagers, we built a simple landing page to collect email addresses. It was the perfect thing to do as a first-time founder and before this AI era, but it isn't anymore. 
 
Ubadi on the ground 
What the waitlist did for us was to collect potential customers' email addresses, but there was no validation metric that they would either use the product when it was ready or even pay for it. 
Technology is increasingly becoming easy to build, consumers' taste is rising fast, and you need more than just a couple of email addresses to validate market interest. 
So then, what makes waitlists so not 2025 (or near 2026), and how can you do better? 
 
1. Waitlists scream anticipation, but you don't need vanity metrics that early 
Anticipation is half the job; your potential customers register their interest, but with a waitlist, you have no way of measuring the intensity of that interest. Are they willing to use a scrappy version zero of your product? Will they pay for it? Will they be engaged by your unique approach to solving the problem? Can you collect data that shapes your next iteration? 
The truth is, a waitlist feels done, but it isn't. Founders can and must push the needle to move a step further beyond the norm. Here are some questions that can guide you in your quest to push further: 
A. What is the simplest version of this product that I can ship today? 
B. How can I get creative in solving this problem in a way that helps me gather customer insights beyond emails? 
C. What metric will be important to measure customer interest intensity, and how do I put a product in front of the customer that helps me measure that? 
2. Waitlists are easy to build and create fake momentum 
Momentum is the lifeblood of startups, revenue, customer usage, investor interest, onboarding an excellent founding team, shipping product, etc. Going the waitlist route means your waitlist becomes version zero of your product, and every customer who registers becomes a boost to your confidence as a founder edging close to pre-PMF… but in the grand scheme of things, those adrenaline spikes are fake and mean less. 
I have been here. I have designed decks and proudly put the number of waitlisters as "traction." But was it? 
In the early days, real traction feeds into real momentum, which then pre-tests your systems before you hit version one. This means your product will have to push a little harder to get a version zero that helps you answer questions A, B and C; engineering will have to push harder and build version zero so it doesn't break just yet; business and sales will have to sell version zero. This actually requires everyone to push the envelope while we all wait for polished version one — and it also gets the consumer working, testing and using version zero. 
And that's real momentum. Teams are moving, consumers are testing and using, and customer interest intensity is being accurately measured. 
Instead of a waitlist, I have adopted the version zero mentality, a version that isn't the product just yet, but also isn't a waitlist. I have piloted this in two products: one I led product operations for and another I founded. 
 
Kero 
Version zero mentality at Kero. 
Kero was a platform to help businesses in Ghana formalise their operations seamlessly from the comfort of their homes and get it done on time in just three steps. After leading market research for it and talking to business owners who had registered businesses and those interested in formalising theirs, it was validated that yes, this is a platform consumers are willing to pay for, in theory. But we had to validate it. 
I led the team to build a simple fixed-screen landing page that did just one thing: collect leads of people who wanted to register their business and pay for it. The version zero worked, but it also tested the capacity of the team, and that's where it failed. The market was ready, but the team wasn't. 
 
Printmote 
Version zero mentality at Printmote. 
After implementing version zero in gathering customer-interest intensity at Kero, when I decided to build the infrastructure that powers the print economy in Africa, I used the same VZ mentality here. I built a version of the platform that allowed customers to simply send their print order to Printmote and get it printed and delivered to their doorstep. The first version was built one weekend using Cursor and on June 1st, the product was live and ready to be tested. 
There were no waitlist moments, not because we couldn't have built one, but because it would have served no purpose. Printmote, even with its version zero, has generated significant revenue that validates far more than any number of email addresses we would have gathered from a waitlist. 
Version zero gave us the opportunity to interact with real businesses and event organisers, helped us build trust, and helped us learn from both our customers and our fulfilment partners. We have experienced the good, the best and the ugly, all of which are actively shaping our version one and roadmap. Something a bunch of email addresses could never do. 
And yes, I know you may be thinking this approach may not work for every industry, especially regulated markets. If I were to launch Ubadi again with all I know today, our version zero would have been a paid edtech product that trains teenagers about finance while we were figuring out the regulatory landscape. 
There is a version zero in every industry. It's your job to find it, and I am rooting for you.